---
title: "p-values"
date: 2021-04-21T10:48:29-05:00
weight: 10
draft: false
#type: slide
#theme: white
description: "Problem set P1: p values and the null hypothesis."
---

{{% use-mathjax %}}
{{% use-goodlists %}}

Key questions for class discussion:

* I get the purpose of the null hypothesis $H_0$, what is the purpose
  of the other distribution? 
  
* How often do you expect your experiment to produce $p$-values less
  than 0.05?
  
Answer 1: The "other distribution" is **the truth**. Knowing the truth
lets you make a distribution of what p-values you expect. This gives
you an idea of how often your experiment will give $p<0.05$ for
example. (Since the $p$-value is a random variable, you won't see
small $p$-values all of the time... unless the truth is very very far
from your null hypothesis.)
  
More questions:

* Under what circumstances should you "accept the null hypothesis"?
  Discuss what goes wrong with this idea when you start to think about
  the details.

* Does scaling $x \mapsto x/3$ change the area under the curve for the
  Gaussian distribution? Why not?
  
## Problem Set P1

Given information: your null hypothesis $H_0$ is that $X$ comes from a
normal distribution (the fancy name is Gaussian) with mean 5 and
variance 9.

1. You observe $x=8$. 
   1. What $p$-value do you report? Explain how
   you get your number. 
   2. Interpret this value in a sentence. Use a
   percentage in your answer don't just say something about
   "reject the null hypothesis".
2. (Standardization or $z$-score.) 
   1. What linear transformation changes the distribution for $X$ into
      the unit normal distribution? 
   2. The outputs of the transformation above are called
      z-scores. What is the z-score of $x=10$?
   3. What is the $p$-value associated with observing $x=0$?
3. Suppose you have set your signficance level of $\alpha=0.03$ and
   the true distribution of the random variable $Y$ is a normal
   $\mathcal{N}\left(\mu=1, \sigma^2 = 1/4\right)$. 
   1. Show the distribution of $p$-values for 10,000 sample y's.
   2. What is the probability that you will get a significant result
      from a single experiment? (An estimate is ok.)
      
      
## Appendix

It seems like applying a factor shinking $x$ by $\sigma$ would change
the area under the normal distribution curve. Some time we should talk
about why that does not happen. If you look at the density function
for a given $\sigma$, you will see that there are two places that
$\sigma$ appears, ... one of them acts as the "du" area correction
factor for your transformed integral. (This is too terse to be a real explanation.)

The formula for the [Gaussian (normal) distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution) with a mean of 0
and a standard deviation of $\sigma$ is:
$$ f(x) = \frac{1}{\sigma \sqrt{2 \pi}} \exp\left(-\frac{1}{2}(x/\sigma)^2\right) $$

