---
title: "Chapter 3 Test 2019"
date: 2019-09-20T13:03:18-05:00
weight: 340
draft: false
#type: slide
#theme: white
---

**Write type signatures for each function.**

On a piece of paper, a person has written what they claim are the
results of flipping a coin 120 consecutive times, writing heads as 1
and tails as 0. The numbers are written in rows of 10.

1. (`q1`) A human transcribed the numbers into a computer, but in order to
   make it easier to type quickly, they type 'x' for 1 and 'c' for 0. 
   They still break the data every line. Translate the data into
   numbers.
   
        [[1,0,1,0,1,0,1,1,1,0],
         [1,0,1,1,0,1,1,1,0,0]] == 
           q1 ["xcxcxcxxxc", "xcxxcxxxcc"]

2. (`q2`) The nested list format is good for writing, but not necessarily the
   best for analyzing. Write a program to "flatten" the nested input
   lists into one great big long list.
   

        [1,0,1,0,1,0,1,1,1] ==
           q2 [[1,0,1,0], [1,0,1,1,1]]


3. (`q3`) Now you start to suspect that the person may not actually
   have flipped a coin 120 times, so you want to find out how many
   heads and tails they actually got. Take in a flattened list (like
   `q2` outputs) and output a tuple containing the number of 0s and
   number of 1s in the data.
   
        (3, 6) ==  q3 [1,0,1,0,1,0,1,1,1]
   
4. (`q4`) One way in which random data and human-faked data are
   different is that humans tend to make shorter runs of the same
   number than actually occur in truely random data. You are going to
   write a program to find the length of the first run of the same
   number.
   
        5 == q4 [1,1,1,1,1,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]

5. (`q5`) Now write a function that outputs a list of all of the run-lengths.

        [5,1,1,7] == q5 [1,1,1,1,1,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]

6. (`q6`) *Bonus* Given the output from `q5`, produce a list of tuples
   (run length, number of runs of that length). Order does not matter.
   
        [(1,2),(5,1),(7,1)] == q6 $ q5 [1,1,1,1,1,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]

