---
title: "Ch05 Problem Set"
date: 2020-09-21T11:26:45-05:00
weight: 52
draft: false
#type: slide
#theme: white
description: "Notes on the Chapter 5 problems to do."
---
Once you have a graph, write a sentence about what it means! Draw a
conclusion for the reader so they know what you are seeing. People
with different backgrounds will see different things in the same graph.

Don't forget about `na.rm=TRUE` when you need it.

Other useful sources of information:
* [Rdocumentation](https://www.rdocumentation.org/)
* [Dplyr Cheat Sheet](https://rstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/data-wrangling-cheatsheet.pdf)
* [Vignette: Window Functions](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dplyr/vignettes/window-functions.html)



## Section 5.6 Notes

* Question 4 (Is the proportion of cancelled flights related to the
  average delay?) - I don't know what you could find for "a pattern"
  in the number of cancelled flights per day, so feel free to ignore
  the first part of this question. The second part of the question
  (quoted here) makes sense and you should try to come up with a visualization
  investigating it.

* Question 5 (Which carrier has the worst delays?)
  You need to explain how you are going to measure "worst
  delays". There are lots of ways: mean delay, median delay, maximum delay, 95th
  percentile delay, etc. Decide something that makes sense to you,
  explain why you chose it, and go ahead. 
  
  I think bad airports vs bad carriers is a very interesting question.
  We will get more tools to analyze this later on in the class.


## Section 5.7 Notes

I found that I needed to read about some of the functions in the
_Window Functions_ vignette in order to do number 8.


* Question 5: I would be interested to hear comments about your
  investigation into delays being correlated in time. I was surprised
  and confused by what I found.

* Question 6: We talked about this some in class. See if you can find
  some interesting cases of very fast or very slow flights to discuss.

* Question 7: Pick how you rank the carriers. The question is
  vague. We could talk about a particular method.
