---
title: "Ch13"
date: 2020-10-14T20:33:57-05:00
weight: 130
draft: false
#type: slide
#theme: white
description: "Relational data."
---

## Setup

The Lahman data is a huge dataset of baseball statistics. See the
[overview of the Sean "Lahman" baseball database](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/Lahman).

```R
install.packages(c("Lahman"))
library(Lahman)
```

## Exercises

1. The `People` database has biographical information about the
   players. 
       
     * Make a histogram showing when players passed away 
         in the 20th century. Don't use the default bin width.
       
2. The [`AllstarFull`
   dataset](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/Lahman/versions/8.0-0/topics/AllstarFull) 
   
     * Make a bar chart showing the frequency of players being in
         "x" all-star games. Only include players with x>6. Fill the
         bars in with colors to denote Amerian League and National
         League player counts. 

3. (**Deleted**)

4. Make two bar charts of allstars counting how many bat with each hand.

    * count every all-star appearance once (so the person who is an
      all-star 20 times)
    * count every all-star player only once (so the person who is an
      all-star 20 times counts once)
    
5. Tag players with all-star appearances in the people data set.  Make
a box plot of salaries of players with all-star appearances vs without
all-star appearances.


6. (Prep/easy.) The `Teams` data frame has information about every team for every
    year. A team is in the playoffs if it is a league winner, division
    winner, or wildcard winner. 
    
    Add a boolean column `playoffs` that reflects this information.

        LgWin == "Y" | DivWin == "Y" | WCWin == "Y"

7. The `Appearances` data frame has information about what team each
   player played for, each year. Combine This information with the
   above `playoffs` information to create a data frame of appearance
   information for everyone who was part of a team that went to the
   playoffs.
   
8. Building on your previous answer, make a table containing the
   `playerID` and the first year they were on a team that went to the playoffs.

9. Use the previous questions to make a scatterplot showing year of
   death vs first year in the playoffs. There are a lot of points, so
   experiment with transparency (`alpha`).


### Open ended

10. Look at the [data available in the Lahman datasets](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/Lahman/versions/8.0-0) and
   brainstorm ten questions you could answer.
   
11. Answer one of your questions.

